Content(mission): Free Worlds side mission to complete Zug's New Port expansion (#7719)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/human/free worlds side plots.txt

# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
# this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

mission "FW Convoy to Zug"
	name "Convoy to Zug"
	description "Escort these Haulers to Zug for an important project. Expect pirate raids."
	source
		government "Free Worlds"
		near Zubeneschamali 2 4
	destination "Zug"
	to offer

> 		has "FW Katya 7C: done"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		has "event: war begins"
		"combat rating" > 200
		or
			not "chosen sides"
			event "joined the free worlds"
```

Instead of restricting this based on the player formally being involved in the FW story, how about basing it on the start of the war?

If I did my suggestion correctly, this would make the player able to get this mission if one of two circumstances are true:

A: The war has started, the player has a combat rating over 200, and they have not committed to choosing sides yet.
B: The war has started, the player has a combat rating over 200, and they have formally joined the Free Worlds.

There is a small window in between the two when this mission wouldn't be available when the player is technically working for the FW council but not actually formally a member, but it's relatively small. On the plus side, this does open this mission up to being done by independent captains that happen to be flying around in that part of space, which seems reasonable.

		not "main story completed"
	on offer
		conversation
			`While returning from a walk around the spaceport town of <origin>, you see the quartermaster of the spaceport inspecting the <ship>. He notices your arrival, and comes up to greet you.`
			`	"You're Captain <first> <last>, yes? We're looking for a good ship that can escort these freighters to <planet>." He points towards five Haulers of varying sizes in Free Worlds colors, some of which have considerable hull damage and are being repaired on the landing pads opposite to your ship.`

> 			`	"Their last escort was just taken out by pirates, and we need someone who is experienced enough to fend off or evade them. You must be well known here, because many of our militia officers here recommended you. This is for quite a significant project on <planet>, so you will be paid <payment>."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"Their last escort was just taken out by pirates, and we need someone who is experienced enough to fend off or evade them. You must have a reputation, since some of our militia captains recognized you. This is for quite a significant project on <planet>, so you will be paid <payment>."`
```

Slight wording tweak to adjust for the fact that the player is getting this based more on combat ability and not forcibly by being already involved with the FW.

			`	"Wonderful! I expect that these ships will benefit the Free Worlds immensely."`
			`	With that, he leaves you to meet with the captains of the freighters.`
				accept
	npc accompany save
		government "Free Worlds"
		personality escort timid
		ship "Hauler II" "F.S. Pohutukawa"
		ship "Hauler II" "F.S. Totara"
		ship "Hauler II" "F.S. Kauri"
		ship "Hauler III" "F.S. Rimu"
		ship "Hauler III" "F.S. Kanuka"
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality plunders staying
		system "Zubenelgenubi"
		fleet "Large Southern Pirates" 3
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality plunders staying
		system "Sabik"
		fleet "Large Southern Pirates" 2
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality plunders staying
		system "Hadar"
		fleet "Large Southern Pirates" 3
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality plunders staying
		system "Zeta Centauri"
		fleet "Large Southern Pirates" 2
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality plunders staying
		system "Izar"
		fleet "Large Southern Pirates" 2
	on visit
		dialog `You have reached <planet>, but you left part of the convoy behind! Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.`
	on complete
		payment 600000
		event "fw zug expansion underway"

> 		event "fw zug expansion complete" 120

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		event "fw zug expansion complete" 120
		"assisted free worlds" ++
```

As you are assisting the free worlds, it makes sense that you get some credit for it, too. (this helps a few other missions & jobs be a little more frequent)

# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
# this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

> mission "FW Convoy to Zug"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
mission "FW Zug Expansion: Assisted"
```

	name "Convoy to Zug"

> 	description "Escort these Freighters to Zug for an important project. Expect pirate raids."

Reviewer 2: The freighters are literally Freighters, but I'd still use lower case "freighter," just so that we're not worrying about going back and forth between the two, particularly if we ever decide to change which freighters we're escorting.
```suggestion
	description "Escort a convoy of freighters to <destination> for an important project. Expect pirate raids."
```

	source
		government "Free Worlds"
		near Zubeneschamali 2 4
	destination "Zug"
	to offer

> 		has "event: war begins"
> 		has "FW Syndicate Diplomacy 1D: done"
> 		not "fw bloodsea done"

Reviewer 2: I think it'd be more appropriate to start offering this after the basic shipyard is already in place, then stop offering it once the player gets started with the middle chapter, as the Dreadnought is mentioned shortly into the middle.
```suggestion
		has "event: tarazed diplomacy"
		not "FW Diplomacy 1: done"
```

	on offer
		conversation

> 			`While returning from a walk around the spaceport town of <origin>, you see the quartermaster of the spaceport inspecting the <ship>. He notices your arrival and comes up to greet you.`

Reviewer 2: We just go away from "the `<ship>`" in #7718, so let's avoid it here too. I'd also drop "town" because we could be at a large spaceport, and "town" would seem like a weird descriptor to me in that case.
```suggestion
			`While returning from a walk around the spaceport of <origin>, you see the quartermaster of the spaceport inspecting your ship. He notices your arrival and comes up to greet you.`
```

> 			`	"You're Captain <first> <last>, yes? We're looking for a good ship that can escort these freighters to <planet>." He points towards five Freighters in Free Worlds colors on the landing pads opposite to your ship, some of which have considerable hull damage and are actively being repaired.`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			`	"You're Captain <first> <last>, yes? We're looking for a good ship that can escort these freighters to <planet>." He points towards five Syndicate Freighters in Free Worlds colors on the landing pads opposite to your ship, some of which have considerable hull damage and are actively being repaired.`
```

			`	"Their last escort was just taken out by pirates, and we need someone who is experienced enough to fend off or evade them. You must have a reputation, since some of our militia captains recognized you. This is for quite a significant project on <planet>, so you will be paid <payment>."`
			choice
				`	"What is the project? It seems to be a big enterprise."`

> 				`	"That's a fair few Freighters, should I be expecting any more pirates?"`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
				`	"That's a fair few freighters. Should I be expecting any more pirates?"`
```

					goto pirates
				`	"Sorry, I'm not planning on going that way."`
					decline

> 			`	"The Freighters are carrying construction materials and specialized shipbuilding equipment for the extension of Zug's New Port, which has been a long time coming. It would greatly help the Free Worlds' efforts. I suppose that is why there have been pirates trying to pounce on these ships; the equipment would be a rich prize for them."`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			`	"The freighters are carrying construction materials and specialized shipbuilding equipment for a planned extension to Zug's New Port, which has been a long time coming. It would greatly help the Free Worlds' efforts. I suppose that is why there have been pirates trying to pounce on these ships; the equipment would be a rich prize for them."`
```

				goto meet
			label pirates

> 			`	"Yes, I would expect more pirate contact, because the movement of so many Freighters would be a tempting target for them, and moreover, they are carrying valuable equipment for warship manufacturing. I'd certainly recommend avoiding combat when possible. In these trying times, the loss of these ships would be... not ideal."`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			`	"Yes, I would expect more pirate contact, because the movement of so many freighters would be a tempting target for them, and moreover, they are carrying valuable equipment for warship manufacturing. I'd certainly recommend avoiding combat when possible. In these trying times, the loss of these ships would be... not ideal."`
```

			label meet

> 			`	"Well, will you help us escort these Freighters?"`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			`	"Well, will you help us escort these freighters?"`
```

			choice

> 				`	"Of course, I'll get these Freighters to <planet> safely."`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
				`	"Of course, I'll get these freighters to <planet> safely."`
```

				`	"No, I won't be able to, sorry."`
					decline

> 			`	"Wonderful! I expect that these ships will benefit the Free Worlds immensely."`
> 			`	With that, he leaves you to meet with the captains of the Freighters.`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			`	"Wonderful! I expect that these ships will benefit the Free Worlds immensely." With that, he leaves you to meet with the captains of the freighters.`
```

				accept
	npc accompany save
		government "Free Worlds"
		personality escort timid
		ship "Freighter" "F.S. Pohutukawa"
		ship "Freighter" "F.S. Totara"
		ship "Freighter" "F.S. Kauri"
		ship "Freighter" "F.S. Rimu"

> 		ship "Freighter" "F.S. Kanuka"

Reviewer 2: I wonder if it might make more sense to use Haulers. I know FW Escort uses Freighters as well, though. Or maybe FW Escort should use Haulers, and this should use Freighters because of the Syndicate diplomacy stuff.

Author: They were originally Haulers III. The only problem was that they kept shredding pirates because they all have quad blaster turrets. I'd definitely like to see more Haulers in the FW storyline because most of the time we're using Freighters or Star Barges, while in FW space I barely see any civilian Freighters.

Reviewer 2: The composition of FW fleets is something we can probably work on later.

	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality plunders staying
		system "Zubenelgenubi"
		fleet "Large Southern Pirates" 3
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality plunders staying
		system "Sabik"
		fleet "Large Southern Pirates" 2
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality plunders staying
		system "Hadar"
		fleet "Large Southern Pirates" 3
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality plunders staying
		system "Zeta Centauri"
		fleet "Large Southern Pirates" 2
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality plunders staying
		system "Izar"
		fleet "Large Southern Pirates" 2
	on visit
		dialog `You have reached <planet>, but you left part of the convoy behind! Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.`
	on complete
		payment 600000
		event "fw zug expansion underway"
		event "fw zug expansion complete" 120
		conversation 

> 			`The five Freighters have all arrived intact, and you are told to land them beside a large area of land set aside for Zug's long-awaited New Port expansion. Not long after, you are sent <payment> by Zug's port authority.`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			`The five freighters have all arrived intact, and you are told to land them beside a large area of land set aside for Zug's long-awaited New Port expansion. Not long after, you are sent <payment> by Zug's port authority.`
```

> 			`	It seems that bringing so many Freighters was justified, because the expansion also includes a considerable extension to Southbound's shipbuilding facilities to make them capable of building heavy warships like Tarazed Falcons. However, by the looks of it, all this equipment would be more than enough to build a Navy Cruiser.`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			`	It seems that bringing so many freighters was justified, because the expansion also includes a considerable extension to Southbound's shipbuilding facilities to make them capable of building heavy warships like Tarazed Falcons. However, by the looks of it, all this equipment would be more than enough to build a Navy Cruiser.`
```

> 

Reviewer 2: I think that even if the player doesn't get to this sideplot, the expansion should still happen.
```suggestion

mission "FW Zug Expansion: Unassisted"
	landing
	invisible
	to offer
		has "FW Diplomacy 1: done"
		not "FW Zug Expansion: Assisted: done"
	on offer
		event "fw zug expansion underway"
		event "fw zug expansion complete" 120
		fail

```
I'll handle the mention of the expansion for players who didn't assist in the story when I get to reworking the middle.

# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
# this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

mission "FW Convoy to Zug"
	name "Convoy to Zug"
	description "Escort these Freighters to Zug for an important project. Expect pirate raids."
	source
		government "Free Worlds"
		near Zubeneschamali 2 4
	destination "Zug"
	to offer
		has "event: war begins"
		has "FW Syndicate Diplomacy 1D: done"
		not "fw bloodsea done"
	on offer
		conversation
			`While returning from a walk around the spaceport town of <origin>, you see the quartermaster of the spaceport inspecting the <ship>. He notices your arrival, and comes up to greet you.`

> 			`	"You're Captain <first> <last>, yes? We're looking for a good ship that can escort these freighters to <planet>." He points towards five Freighters in Free Worlds colors, some of which have considerable hull damage and are being repaired on the landing pads opposite to your ship.`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
			`	"You're Captain <first> <last>, yes? We're looking for a good ship that can escort these freighters to <planet>." He points towards five Freighters in Free Worlds colors on the landing pads opposite to your ship, some of which have considerable hull damage and actively being repaired.`
```

			`	"Their last escort was just taken out by pirates, and we need someone who is experienced enough to fend off or evade them. You must have a reputation, since some of our militia captains recognized you. This is for quite a significant project on <planet>, so you will be paid <payment>."`
			choice
				`	"What is the project? It seems to be a big enterprise."`
				`	"That's a fair few Freighters, should I be expecting any more pirates?"`
					goto pirates
				`	"Sorry, I'm not planning on going that way."`
					decline

> 			`	"The Freighters are carrying construction materials and specialized shipbuilding equipment for the extension of Zug's New Port, which has been a long time coming. It would greatly help the Free Worlds' efforts. I suppose that is why there have been pirates trying to pounce on these ships, the equipment would be a rich prize for them."`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
			`	"The Freighters are carrying construction materials and specialized shipbuilding equipment for the extension of Zug's New Port, which has been a long time coming. It would greatly help the Free Worlds' efforts. I suppose that is why there have been pirates trying to pounce on these ships; the equipment would be a rich prize for them."`
```

		ship "Freighter" "F.S. Kauri"
		ship "Freighter" "F.S. Rimu"
		ship "Freighter" "F.S. Kanuka"
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality plunders staying
		system "Zubenelgenubi"
		fleet "Large Southern Pirates" 3
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality plunders staying
		system "Sabik"
		fleet "Large Southern Pirates" 2
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality plunders staying
		system "Hadar"
		fleet "Large Southern Pirates" 3
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality plunders staying
		system "Zeta Centauri"
		fleet "Large Southern Pirates" 2
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality plunders staying
		system "Izar"
		fleet "Large Southern Pirates" 2
	on visit
		dialog `You have reached <planet>, but you left part of the convoy behind! Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.`
	on complete
		payment 600000
		event "fw zug expansion underway"
		event "fw zug expansion complete" 120
		"assisted free worlds" ++
		conversation 
			`The five Freighters have all arrived intact, and you are told to land them beside a large area of land set aside for Zug's long-awaited New Port expansion. Not long after, you are sent <payment> by Zug's port authority.`

> 			`	It seems that bringing so many Freighters was justified, because the expansion also includes a considerable extension to Southbound's shipbuilding facilities, to make them capable of building heavy warships like Tarazed Falcons. However, by the looks of it, all this equipment would be more than enough to build a Navy Cruiser.`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
			`	It seems that bringing so many Freighters was justified, because the expansion also includes a considerable extension to Southbound's shipbuilding facilities to make them capable of building heavy warships like Tarazed Falcons. However, by the looks of it, all this equipment would be more than enough to build a Navy Cruiser.`
```
